Throughout the next lessons I want to do the final steps of the data preparation for our base classifier
and also show you a common format for data sets that you'll often encounter out there in the wild.
Over the next lessons we'll be writing some Python code to create our feature vectors but not only that
we'll create our features as a sparse matrix.
What I mean by that.
Well let's take it one step ahead of time.
Let's consider a full matrix first.
In that case we have our documentaries in one column and then we'll have our words in another column.
Now of course these will be the word I.D. but for illustration I've written an actual wood here on the
slide.
Then in that third column we'll have our label her label it will be equal to one if the e-mail is spam
and it will be equal to zero.
If our email is non spam.
So in this case email number five thousand seven hundred and ninety five is a non spam email and the
label is equal to zero.
And that last column where it says occurrence we will capture how often the word in the word column
appears in the email.
So if the word free appears three times then occurrence will be equal to three.
Makes sense right.
The reason that this kind of table is called a full matrix is because for each email there's an entry
for each word.
Even if that wood doesn't occur in the email the full matrix has an entry for each word in the vocabulary
for each and every single email.
Now we set our vocabulary size at 2500.
Remember therefore for each document I.D. There will be two thousand and five hundred entries many of
which will be zero.
And this is where the sparse matrix comes in with a sparse matrix.
We will remove the entries which are zero.
And that means we actually only include the rows which have a word that occurs in the email.
In this example the word mortgage and the word pay does not appear in email number five thousand seven
hundred ninety five.
Therefore those rows will not be present in the sparse matrix so you can see how the sparse matrix is
just a compressed version of the full matrix with fewer rows.
Now let's head over to Jupiter notebook and write some python code.
First let me add a markdown cell to commemorate what we're gonna do.
We're going to generate features and a sparse matrix and the first part of that is going to be creating
a data frame with one word per column.
I say creating a data frame with one word per column.
But what are we creating the data frame from where are we at in terms of our data.
We're going to be working with our stemmed nested list are stemmed nested list looks like this.
So we've got a list of words for each document for each email.
This thing about this is that Haas 10 nested list is a series All right.
It's a panda series that holds on to individual lists.
So if I want to access the e-mail at position two then I would see that even though our STEM nested
list as a whole is a panda series it contains individual lists.
So it's actually a series of lists each entries a list that makes it a little bit of an unwieldy data
structure but it's one we're gonna work with.
And what we're gonna do is we're going to convert it from a series containing lists to one of a list
containing lists.
And the reason for doing that is that there exists a very very handy method to convert list of lists
into a data frame.
So let me quickly copy and paste the cell and show you the method we're gonna use to convert our series
to a list.
And it's simply called to list our panda series has a method called to list which converts the whole
thing to a Python list.
Fair enough.
The way this looks is what you might expect namely two square brackets.
And then in each pair of square brackets you have an individual email.
So the first e-mail ends here.
The second one starts here.
It's.
It's kind of messy actually but we don't have to worry about this so much because we're going to create
a panda's data frame using this code here.
And the way we're gonna do that is with PD dot data frame and instead of the parentheses and enclosing
it like so what we're gonna do instead is we're gonna put a dot and call a method called from records
from Underscore Records that is and this is where we're going to feed in our stemmed unescorted nested
underscore list dot to list now before I hit shift enter on this let's store this whole thing this whole
data frame in a variable called Word on the score columns on a score date f or a data frame and we'll
set that equal to PD dot data frame dot from records and then below we're going to print out the head
of this data frame so we're going a script columns underscore def dot head.
Now let's take a look at the first five rows and what we see here is as the index we've got our document
ideas we'll add a label for this shortly and then we have each word split up as an individual data point
in a column and it looks like we have a total of seven thousand six hundred and sixty one columns.
The overall shape of our data frame looks like this.
We've got five thousand seven hundred and ninety six rows and seven thousand six hundred and sixty one
columns.
Now here's a question to you.
Why does the data frame have this shape well five thousand seven hundred and ninety six is the total
number of emails that we have and seven thousand six hundred and sixty one is the number of words stem
words that is in the longest email and we know this to be true because we've worked this out in a previous
exercise now it's time to take the next step and that is splitting the data into a training and testing
dataset.
It's time to shuffle and split the data.
Now that we've got our word on the score columns data frame.
Now we've actually done this before.
So I want to throw this over to you as a challenge.
Can you split the data into a training and testing dataset using psychic learn as they're doing this
set the test size at 30 percent.
That means that the training data should include around 4000 and 57 emails and also as you're shuffling
set the seed value to 42.
And as you pause this video and try to solve this challenge how we think about what the target values
should be as you're doing this
all right.
So here's the solution.
We're gonna be using psychic learns train test split function to accomplish this.
So we have to import this whole thing into our notebook so we'll see from S.K. learn don't model on
a school selection.
This is where the whole thing lives.
Import train test split hitting tab on your keyboard after typing a few of the letters should help you
avoid any typos on this relatively long import statement.
Now hit shift enter on the cell and let's continue where we left off at the bottom of the notebook the
train test split.
Function will give us four outputs so that store them in four separate variables.
The first one I'll call X on a school train the next one I'll call X on a school test then lowercase
y on a school train.
Come on.
Why on the school test.
And that's gonna be equal to train test split open parentheses word columns data frame.
This is going to be our first argument.
Then we have to supply our y values the data frame that we just created after all was just the features
Right the different words the y values that we're trying to predict are actually our categories and
I'm going to grab those from our data data frame it has a column called category and this is what I'll
supply here.
Next I'll set the test size to zero point three so 30 percent and then I'll set my random under school
state to 42.
This is where I'm specifying a seed value.
And if you and I specify the same seed value we'll get the same results we'll get exactly the same shuffle.
So let me run this and then we'll look at our analytics first let me print out the number of training
samples and I'll print out x train dot shape square brackets.
Zero.
These are the number of training samples and we've got 30 percent of the total which is four thousand
and fifty seven next.
Let's just verify the fraction of the training set for the fraction of the training set.
It's gonna be this number four thousand and fifty seven divided by the total number of entries say in
our features data frame.
So this was word on the score of columns on a school def shape 0 and that's 70 percent or very close
to that meaning the tests said it's gonna be one minus this number which is 30 percent which we've specified
here.
Now let's take a look at what we've actually got.
So I'll take X train dot head.
These are the first five rows of our shuffled word on the score columns data frame.
Now I said that these numbers here would refer to the index.
Right.
Our document I.D. and we can add this label very very easily.
So we'll see X on a school train dot index dot name is equal to single the quotes you'll see on the
school I.D. shift enter.
We'll have our index name show up in the output right here but say we wanted to add this index name
to both the training data set and the testing dataset.
So X underscore a test as well.
We can actually do that in the very same line of code by inserting another equal sign before we assign
this string value here and write X on the school test dot index tot name in this case we're setting
both of these indices equal to talk on a school I.D. then we had shift enter and show you that document
I.D. actually match up after shuffling let's pull up y on the school train dot head and then we see
the first five rows of our target values you can see here that the document I.D. match up with what
we see in the training dataset how of course that should be true regardless of whether this says X in
Moscow train or X in the school test the order of the features and the target values will be the same
but proof is in the pudding right.
Excellent the school test looks like this and Y on the school test looks like this in the next lesson
we're going to create a sparse matrix from our training dataset and we're gonna do that by transforming
the values in our data frame I'll see you there.